Add release notes for v3.1.0 (#168)
libremfg/rhize-docs: content/deploy/install/row-level-access-control.md

---
title: Row Level Access Control
description: >-
  Instructions to configure Rhize BAAS scopemap for Row level Access Control.
weight: 200
categories: "how-to"
---

> ## What is Row Level Access Control?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Row Level Access Control (RLAC) is a security mechanism that restricts access to specific rows of data based on user roles and permissions. This allows organizations to enforce fine-grained access policies, ensuring that users can only access the data they are authorized to see. For example, in a contract manufacturing organization (CMO), RLAC enables the CMO to access and manage their specific data while allowing the parent company to view all data across the organization.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Row Level Access Control (RLAC) is a security mechanism that restricts access to specific rows of data based on user roles and permissions. This provides a way to enforce fine-grained access policies and ensure that users can access only the data they are authorized to see.
For example, in a contract manufacturing organization (CMO), RLAC enables the CMO to access and manage their specific data while allowing the parent company to view all data across the organization.

```

- **Operational Efficiency**: Allows CMOs to focus on their specific data while the parent company maintains oversight of the entire system.
- **Compliance**: Helps organizations meet regulatory requirements by controlling access to sensitive data.

## Configuring Row Level Access Control in Rhize BAAS

RLAC in Rhize BAAS is configured through the `alpha.scopemap.scopemap.json` property in the `values.yaml` file of the BAAS Helm chart. The scope map is a JSON file that defines rules, actions, jurisdictions, and resources. These rules combine OpenID Connect (OIDC) roles with resources and actions across jurisdictions (also referred to as hierarchy scopes in ISA-95).

### Example Configuration

Consider the following scenario: Acme Inc. contracts part of its supply chain to a CMO. To implement RLAC:

1. **Create an OIDC Role**: Define a role called `cmoAccess` in your OIDC provider (e.g., Keycloak).
2. **Define a Hierarchy Scope**: Create a hierarchy scope in Rhize called `CMO`. This scope is applied to objects or nodes in the graph that relate to the CMO.
3. **Add a Rule to the Scope Map**: Define a rule in the `scopemap.scopemap.json` file as follows:

```json
{

>    {

Author: ignoring this as it is part of the stub from bass helm chart values, `alpha.scopemap.scopemap.json`.
